# Contributing

Hi! Thank you for considering contributing to this project.  

Please read the Rules and the Project Creation History to get an idea of how I see this project.

If you want to help, **you can take a look at issues with the [help wanted](https://github.com/kitsumed/ShizuCallRecorder/issues?q=state%3Aopen%20label%3A%22help%20wanted%22) tag**, where I may want other users points of view (not just *"yes, it’s nice"* feedback) or am directly asking for help with pull requests and resources. Of course, nothing stops you from interacting with other issues, but issues that have been tagged are the ones I would like to target or have help with as a higher priority.

## Rules

1. **Communication should happen in English** so everyone can understand.
2. **Be respectful**. This project is free and maintained in my spare time. **I am free to decide whether I merge contributions or not**. If you absolutely want a feature that is rejected, you are free to **create your own personal fork of the project**.
3. Please **explain in your PR what the feature does**, which files were edited, and **why the change is needed**. When relevant, **include examples and/or a small PoC video**. PR body fully generated in AI "story-like" style will be closed without review.
4. Please **focus on small and isolated changes** instead of large refactors across multiple files. Large refactors will most likely not be merged unless they were discussed beforehand.
5. Try to **maintain the current code style**. This includes syntax, formatting, KDoc, comments, naming style, etc.
6. When fixing, migrating, or adding something, please **include links to the relevant Android documentation and/or other helpful explanations**. Since I am new to Android development, I do not want to merge something I cannot at least vaguely understand and maintain in the future.
7. **PRs fully generated by AI may be closed without review.** I may also **temporarily or permanently restrict your ability to interact with the repository** for whatever period of time GitHub allows. Please declare if you used any type of LLM/AI.

   To be clear: **you are allowed to use AI as a tool**. In fact, I often used Gemeni and would not have managed to create some parts of this project without it. The important part here is ***as a tool***.

   AI-generated code is rarely perfect from the start. It is often either:
   - spaghetti code
   - missing documentation
   - excessive story like or useless documentation (this include Github comments and pull request body content!)
   - overly engineered for the actual needs of the project
   - not following project code style
   - confidently wrong in its choice, but **without the human brain and logic** to realise it

   I do not want to spend time reviewing low-effort AI-generated PRs.

   Example:  
   https://github.com/kitsumed/SubtitlesParserV2/pull/5

   **Attribution**:  
   Please avoid having the AI generate commits. If you must do so, **ensure it does not use the **`Co-authored-by: [AI_AGENT]`** tag**. Instead, commits made by AI can include an **`Assisted-by:`** tag.
   
   Example:  
   `Assisted-by: Gemini 3.1 Pro`

9. If you plan to work on a large feature, please open an issue first to discuss it. This avoids wasted work if the feature does not fit the project goals.
10. **Keep dependencies minimal**. Avoid adding new libraries **unless they are clearly justified**.
11. Try to keep the project simple. **Prefer understandable and maintainable solutions (if available) over complex or clever ones**.

## Project Creation History
For a couple of years now, I have wanted the ability to record my phone calls on Android. At the time, all of the projects I could find that worked without root were proprietary apps with weird telemetry, unrelated permissions, and constant background API requests.

Those apps also had bad recording quality and could not support Bluetooth devices or headsets, as they were using a workaround to record phone calls from the phone speaker. As for FOSS options, only root applications like BCR existed, as far as I am aware, I am the first, FOSS non-root call recorder app.

After falling down the [Shizuku rabbit hole](https://kitsumed.github.io/blog/posts/what-is-shizuku_how-does-it-work_security-implications/), I started to wonder if it would be possible to use the once available [CAPTURE_AUDIO_OUTPUT](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/Manifest.permission#CAPTURE_AUDIO_OUTPUT) permission with Shizuku.

After multiple days of research, I discovered from an issue in the [BCR repo that the owner himself said it was now possible](https://github.com/chenxiaolong/BCR/issues/278#issuecomment-1925914290). Having never touched Kotlin or Android app development before, I decided to try generating a PoC with AI.

The result: a 0 byte audio file.

I could not understand how Android reflection or hidden APIs worked, I did not know where to start, and to be fair, starting Android Development with an application that uses the Shizuku API with outdated docs and demos plus hidden private Android API reflection seemed quite insane.

Then I was sent a link to an XDA forum where I learned that a popular proprietary app on XDA had added beta support for Shizuku just 4 days earlier. Sure enough, it worked.

This pushed me to keep searching and experimenting because I wanted a FOSS alternative, something public. Besides, I did not want to give ADB-like access to a proprietary app. To me, that was a bad idea.

I then discovered [scrcpy](https://github.com/genymobile/scrcpy) and saw that through ADB they added [audio forwarding](https://blog.rom1v.com/2023/03/scrcpy-2-0-with-audio/). Luckily for me, they also release a standalone server binary with every release and provide very nice documentation, even though I did not understand everything completely.

Using AI, I quickly managed to generate a working PoC with horrendous code, but somewhat functional.

From there, I watched a 3 to 4 hour Kotlin introduction video and started trying to make the code actually make sense. I also looked at Android docs but there's a lot of stuff. As of writing this file, I have been rewriting (major refractorings + new features) the app to be less "horrendous" for multiples weeks now.

At first, I wanted to make the application in C# since I'm more familar with the language, but Shizuku did not have a C# API package, and it seemed that Kotlin has a lot more resources online for Android devs beginners, so I decided to go ahead and figure it out as I went.
Remember, I had never done any Android development before, and I still find many things in Android development really confusing. I also have difficulty with how things are named and using the right [architectures](https://developer.android.com/topic/architecture/recommendations).
